The paper Gahl(2008) investigates the shortening of frequent words and their homophonic not frequent counterparts such as "time" and "thyme". In the introduction they mention two research questions.
One is that it would be reasonable that homphone pairs(pairs of words with identical forms) should behave as if they had identical frequencies. The other question is whether the usage of frequency information should be considered part of linguistic competence.
Gahl(2008) mentions a claim by Newmeyer that says "[...] the more often we do something the faster we are able to do it[...]." Gahl(2008) argues against that by saying : "if articulatory routinization is indeed the reason why frequent forms tend to be shorter than infrequent ones,then articulatory practice with a high-frequency word like time should cause a low-frequency homophone like thyme to shorten as well."
Gahl(2008) claims that homphones have provided evidence contraining models of lexical represantation and word production. It also says that some model lead to expect lemma frequency effects whereas other models do not.
Furthermore he starts a discussion about the expectation that low-frequency words with high-frequency homophones to be as short as their high-frequency twins. Gahl(2008) states that it is mixed but the majority of studies have failed to find differences in durations of homophone pairs. But there are also studies which have prooved that there is variety in word duration and the explanations for that are many. According to Bard et al(2000), Fowler(1988) and many more word durations tend to shorten, and articulatory effort tends to be
reduced, as a function of repetition within a discourse.
Gahl(2008) ran an experiment himself and came to the following conclusion with the given data: 223 homophone pairs meeting the criteria for inclusion, represented by 80.179 tokens. The higher-frequency members of the pairs had a mean frequency of 367.7 in the Switchboard corpus, with a median of 33. The mean Switchboard frequency of the lower-frequency forms was 21.6, with a median of 4.
Gahl(2008) found out that the average duration of the high-frequency words were shorter than those of their low-frequency homophones. The effect of frequency on word duration remained significant when local speaking rate, syntactic category,predictability from neighboring words, proximity to pauses, length in letters, and orthography were statistically controlled. These results speak for two theoretical approaches: lemma frequency affects language production and that the shorter duration of frequent forms cannot solely be due to increased articulatory routinisation with highly practiced items.


Questions: 
+What are predictor variables?(I would have mentioned them in the summary but I cannot quite grasp what they mean.)
+I also didn't get the regression part. I feel this might be a larger topic(In fact I know it is. Sorry, for not taking the time to read into it. :( )
